## WEEK 3 LEARNING Journal

  __SUBJECT:__ *Customer choice and options*

    *First Takeaway*
      `My first takeaway was from the segmentation and targeting video. I found it extremely interesting that a picture of the "target customer" was so important. I do realize why this is used for customer profiles that are generated but personally I think it could be a huge problem for figuring out who a good customer might be. For example, if you are a salesperson that is given one of these profiles and you focus on the picture too much couldn’t that cause you to fail in connecting with a customer that matches all other profile information? Although giving the customer profile a picture does make it more real, I feel like it could also create huge problems. `
    *Second Takeaway*
      `My second takeaway is the differences between marketing strategies, i.e. mass marketing, marketing segmentation, one to one marketing. I found this point from the slides very interesting, as when I think of marketing, I always think that you have to have segmentation and an idea of what your customer is. And never really thought that there were other ways (mass marketing, and One to one marketing). This really caused me to think about how some retailers skip over creating profiles and ideal customers and instead just punt the product out into the world and see who will buy it. Of course, this is a huge trend right now especially for people who are buying cheap products in bulk and then selling them at a premium. But then there is the other side which I never ever thought about which is One-to-one, where the business spends so much time and energy adjusting their products and marketing to so many specific customers that there is no profitable outcome.`
    *Third Takeaway*
      `My third takeaway is the pattern of purchasing. This is something that would often be forgotten when you think of marketing, but it is very important. Patterns of purchasing are trends that follow a first beginning purchase. So, for example when you buy a house you will have to buy appliances, furniture, art, etc. Being able to see that in a customer is very important because then you can place other opportunities for sales in front of them. If someone buys a baby book, then you can market baby related items of course, but also saving accounts and long-term purchases. `
    *Fourth Takeaway*
      `My fourth takeaway is from the TED talk 'Choice, happiness and spaghetti sauce' where a huge point is made about what people actually like. In the talk many examples are given of people that were asked what they want and they would give answers but in reality they didn’t want that, instead they wanted something else that they couldn’t example or think of at the time. So instead of asking the customer what they wanted instead you give them tons of choices and see what they really like. This point makes a great deal of sense to me personally because I know so many people that don’t really know what they want, instead they know what other want and what is popular and that’s what they would say that wanted. `
    *Fifth Takeaway*
      `My fifth takeaway is also from the TED talk. This point is made at the very end and I think from a marketing perspective it is the most important. By giving people more options, 3 instead of 1, you can increase their liking of a product by 10 percent. The example that was given was that people would on average give a single product 60 out of 100 but if they were given a product that was more personalized to their liking then that average could go up to 70 out of 100. This is a huge lesson that I think is very important when making a product line. The lesson is that you have to present options to diversify your customers but also not create too many so that cost of making the product counteracts the new higher purchasing of the product.  `
    *Sources*
      `Gladwell, Malcolm. “Choice, Happiness and Spaghetti Sauce.” TED, Feb. 2004, www.ted.com/talks/malcolm_gladwell_choice_happiness_and_spaghetti_sauce#t-1030571.`
