## THEME READING 4,5,6

  __Question:__ *How does somones ethnicity and country of origin affect there ability to recognize happiness in there life?*
    `As stated in Robert Waldinger article 'What makes a good life' relationships seemed to be a huge factor in a persons happiness along with health. But this was an american study done by americans. So what would happen if the study was done somewhere else where relationship values were different. Much like the studies that showed learning disperaties among different culultures would there be similar differences in lives. In culultures that didnt value relationship and personally contact as much would there be different outcomes then the original study. Along with this would there be different things that would improve a persons life. So for example if the culuture had put more value into personally acheivemnt then americans apparently do then would more acheivemnt improve there lives?`

  __Question:__ *Considering how fuild out knowledge is what could happen to someones idea of happiness if they were conditioned for a long period of time?*
    `So in Dan Gilberts TED talk he stated that becuase of our adption to have a pre frontal cortex out ability to change the context of events as increaseded greatly. Now this is because we can change he meaning of events by imagining different scenarios with different outcomes. This goes to show that our feelings are mostly to do with past events and how we categories them based on our history. So the question is if you consistently condistioned somoen from birth to think that certain events were the key to there happiness would it work. So would typical negative events actually be percieved by out brain as positive becuase we have never known another possabilitly?`
