MARKETING 1/WEEK 2/MARKETING UPDATE 1.md, before:

## MARKETING UPDATE 1

  *About the marketing update project*

    `Choose one topic from among the hundreds presented in our course material and prepare a one-page memo. The update should be aligned with one of the four Ps of marketing (Product, Price, Place, or Promotion). Each update should summarize (summarize DOES NOT mean cut and paste the abstract - this would be plagiarism) the main points of the article along with your own opinion of the subject. The articles should be appropriately cited using a commonly accepted format such as MLA or APA.`

    `The written memo is expected to be your highest quality work. Particular attention should be paid to commonly accepted grammar, spelling, punctuation, sentence structure, paragraph structure etc.`

    `In addition to the written update, please share your findings as part of your weekly learning journal.`

  *Grading*

    `Content depth and fit- the paper has both the summary and your opinion and is related to a marketing topic. If you aren't sure about a topic, send me an email and ask if it's a good topic.`

    `Grammar and spelling- the paper is free of errors as described above. Use the Online Writing Lab: https://techweb.oit.edu/students/peer-consulting/online-writing-lab`

    `Quality of source- peer-reviewed journal articles are ideal (example: Journal of Marketing). Well-known periodicals/websites such as Ad Age, Harvard Business Review, and NPR are acceptable- you won't lose points for these. Sources that are of questionable or difficult-to-verify authority should not be used and may result in a deduction of points. If you aren't sure, send me an email and ask if it's a god source.`

  *Sample marketing update 1*

    To: [Instructor's name]
    From: [Student's name]
    Subject: Major study of Consumer Receptivity to Advertising (Promotion)
    Date: 1/15/20

    This article discusses a study to gauge consumer receptivity to advertising planned by media giants such as America Online and Turner Broadcasting.

    This study attempts to finally answer advertisers' famous question first voiced by Philadelphia retailer John Wanamaker in the late 1800s: ``I know half of my advertising is wasted, but don't know which half.'' To learn that, the study will ask consumers about receptivity to ads about certain types of products within certain media, including TV, print and Web sites.

    The pilot study, launched in March, asked 1,000 consumers by mail what media they consume, then later questioned how interested consumers are in ads in some 85 categories ranging from automobiles to IRAs to yogurt. The researchers believe matching answers provides insight into which product categories have the most ad-receptive users and in which media those ads might be the most effective.

    My Opinion:
    This study will provide some valuable insight into what works in advertising. Far too often advertising dollars are wasted or misdirected at consumers who either don't care or are not in the target market. Being able to identify in advance which consumers will be most receptive to advertising could lead to more efficient uses of advertising budgets.

    Source: Goetzl, D. (2009). Study to determine consumer receptivity. Advertising Age, Vol. 73 Issue 8, p3.

Commit message:

new content to week 2 learning journal and marketing update 1

MARKETING 1/WEEK 2/MARKETING UPDATE 1.md, after:

## MARKETING UPDATE 1

  *About the marketing update project*

    `Choose one topic from among the hundreds presented in our course material and prepare a one-page memo. The update should be aligned with one of the four Ps of marketing (Product, Price, Place, or Promotion). Each update should summarize (summarize DOES NOT mean cut and paste the abstract - this would be plagiarism) the main points of the article along with your own opinion of the subject. The articles should be appropriately cited using a commonly accepted format such as MLA or APA.`

    `The written memo is expected to be your highest quality work. Particular attention should be paid to commonly accepted grammar, spelling, punctuation, sentence structure, paragraph structure etc.`

    `In addition to the written update, please share your findings as part of your weekly learning journal.`

  *Grading*

    `Content depth and fit- the paper has both the summary and your opinion and is related to a marketing topic. If you aren't sure about a topic, send me an email and ask if it's a good topic.`

    `Grammar and spelling- the paper is free of errors as described above. Use the Online Writing Lab: https://techweb.oit.edu/students/peer-consulting/online-writing-lab`

    `Quality of source- peer-reviewed journal articles are ideal (example: Journal of Marketing). Well-known periodicals/websites such as Ad Age, Harvard Business Review, and NPR are acceptable- you won't lose points for these. Sources that are of questionable or difficult-to-verify authority should not be used and may result in a deduction of points. If you aren't sure, send me an email and ask if it's a god source.`

  *Assignment*

    To: [Corey Murphy]
    From: [Ethan Dunzer]
    Subject: See how State Farm and Allstat are marketing refunds during pandemic in loyalty play. (PROMOTION)
    Date: 4/14/20

    This Ad age article goes through the new trend for insureance agentcies to offer special discouts during times of crisis.

    Adrianne Pasquarelli the authors enlitens the reader that insurance agencies are no longer just this off shore business that has little to no connection to there customer besisides there billable issues. Instead Pasquarelli points out in mulitple examples that these businesses seem to be implementing a new type of marking and promtoional stragety that tries to connect with the consumer and limit the distance between them.

    State Farm and Allstate two of the bigger players in the business have been releasing ads that describe adjusted prices and discounts for all there customers. By issing these refunds and adjusted prices its seems that businesses arent completly thinking about the customer. Instead they could be thinking ahead and avoiding backlash when regulatory mandates are put in place.

    This new promtoional strategy not only wants to change the idea of insurance companies and there customers but also who is making the descions. Many of the commericals show the businesses CEO's or spokes persons in a home setting, furthering this "we are just like you" idea.

    My Opinion: Covid-19 is the reasoning for this but it seems that other oppurtunities will open up from this example. Possible changes in prices may result from other sircumstances, such as large scale natural disasters in cities.

    This new idea of connecting with customers has really started to take hold an I could definetly see businesses that are negatively viewed by the public taking losses in income just to change there image in the public eye.

    Source: Pasquarelli, Adrianne. “See How State Farm and Allstate Are Marketing Refunds during Pandemic in Loyalty Play.” Ad Age, 10 Apr. 2020.

  *Sample marketing update 1*

    To: [Instructor's name]
    From: [Student's name]
    Subject: Major study of Consumer Receptivity to Advertising (Promotion)
    Date: 1/15/20

    This article discusses a study to gauge consumer receptivity to advertising planned by media giants such as America Online and Turner Broadcasting.

    This study attempts to finally answer advertisers' famous question first voiced by Philadelphia retailer John Wanamaker in the late 1800s: ``I know half of my advertising is wasted, but don't know which half.'' To learn that, the study will ask consumers about receptivity to ads about certain types of products within certain media, including TV, print and Web sites.

    The pilot study, launched in March, asked 1,000 consumers by mail what media they consume, then later questioned how interested consumers are in ads in some 85 categories ranging from automobiles to IRAs to yogurt. The researchers believe matching answers provides insight into which product categories have the most ad-receptive users and in which media those ads might be the most effective.

    My Opinion:
    This study will provide some valuable insight into what works in advertising. Far too often advertising dollars are wasted or misdirected at consumers who either don't care or are not in the target market. Being able to identify in advance which consumers will be most receptive to advertising could lead to more efficient uses of advertising budgets.

    Source: Goetzl, D. (2009). Study to determine consumer receptivity. Advertising Age, Vol. 73 Issue 8, p3.
