## JOURNAL WEEK 1

  __SUBJECT:__ *How Oneplus rising to the top of the smartphone market and Marking takeaways.*

    `My first takeaway deals with the new style of marketing that Oneplus implemented in order to disrupt the stagnant race between apple and Samsung in the smartphone marketplace. To start off Oneplus is a relatively new company compared to their competitors but has quickly shown that they have the abilities to compete. There ability to use the 4Ps to climb the high latter of the smartphone market is quite extraordinary. By creating a product that is well built, tuff, efficient, and with a competitive price they have made a name for themselves. By using a new strategy of limited promotion and forced outreach, that is very similar to tesla, they have been cast into a role that is opposite to the larger companies like Samsung and apple. Effectively making them the middle ground between the two choices. `

    `My second takeaway from the reading is the timeline of marketing strategies. As we all read there has been a huge shift in marketing strategies that has becomes much more involved in their customers. Instead of just putting out discounts to attract people there are now targeted adds for different kinds of people. Although this is what we all read I think there was one important part that was missing. The shift back to the old times. As I stated above there are certain companies that actually have limited there marketing and promotion in order to show the customer that they are not overspending and therefore not inflating the cost of the product. For companies like Oneplus the whole idea was to be different from Samsung but maintain the same specs and performance so they could compete. By not spending money on advertising and marketing to the customer, and just letting the product speak for itself they showed how different of a company they are. `

    `My third takeaway was from the Steve Jobs video and how his explanation of apples new marketing strategies are focuses on a new image for themselves. I thought it was very interesting to see that back then apple was in the same position that they are in right now. Being that they are just competing with there main rivals and not showing a difference in their product beside the minor details. Personally, I have thought that apple was thriving when they started making good laptops and this continued when they innovated to create the new smartphone (iphone). Now days though they are failing in that image, and instead are focusing on keeping their current customers locked in. `

    `My fourth takeaway is about STP and how the positioning aspect works. Although I already knew about the segmentation and targeting of customers I never thought about the efficiency. Which is where positioning comes into play. In many circumstances if a product is not properly displayed to a customer the entire idea of the product could fall apart. Very interesting aspect that you would have to think about with current events happening and random information that the targeted groups could be exposed to. False information could play a huge role in this. `

    `My final takeaway has to deal with Apple again and their relation to the 4ps. First off apple probably has the strangest 4ps of all time. There product makes sense, its high quality and very cutting edge on the design but there pricing has nothing to do with why someone would want the product.  Where most items are priced competitively apple actually puts a tax in a way on their products because they are so “cutting edge in design”. There promotion is limited in the specs department and rather focuses on assigning their customers to a group and trying to keep them there. By this I mean they want to keep their customers thinking that they need the next gen of iphone because all their commercials show people just like them using those “new features”. Then last, we have the place. Now although this has changed a lot over the years, online being such an impact, apples stores contribute a huge amount to there image. Not only are the stores very similar to there product, simple, clean, and designed in a modern fashion, but they have a social image status to them. Going into an apple store affords you a look that only comes with buying something expensive and not worth it. `

    *SOURCES:*
      `Qumer S.M., Purkayastha D. (2019) OnePlus: A Chinese Tech Startup Aiming to Disrupt the Global Smartphone Market. In: China Europe International Business School (eds) China-Focused Cases. Springer, Singapore`

      `Coget, Jean-Francois. “The Apple Store Effect: Does Organizational Identification Trickle Down to Customers?” Academy of Management Perspectives, vol. 25, no. 1, 2011, pp. 94–95., doi:10.5465/amp.2011.59198452.`
